ProcMount 1.30 update (#45152)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context.md

in Kubernetes 1.26.
{{< /note >}}

> ## Changing the permissions of your's '/proc'

Reviewer: The grammar doesn't look right to me.
I suggest:
```suggestion
## Managing access to the `/proc` filesystem {#proc-access}
```

> {{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.12" state="alpha" >}}

Reviewer: Even better:
```suggestion
{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="ProcMountType" >}}
```

Reviewer 2: @haircommander I don't want to add unnecessary noise, but I thought [KEP-4265](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4265) is targeting `beta`. Am I missing something over here? Are these the missing docs for `alpha`? Where are the docs for `beta`?

Reviewer 2: Oh, I see. The alpha feature was merged quite some time ago, but there weren't any docs for the feature. This PR just simply adds docs for that feature gate.

> By default, containers have multiple paths that are both

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For runtimes that follow the OCI runtime specification, containers default to running in a mode where
there are multiple paths that are both
```

> [masked](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/f66aad47309/config-linux.md#masked-paths)

Reviewer: I wouldn't put that link here, although I **would** put it inside the further reading section.

and read only. The result of this is the container has these paths present
inside the container's mount namespace, and they can function similarly to if
the container was an isolated host, but the container process cannot write to
them. A list of the paths are found in the [Kubernetes source

> code](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/964529b227/pkg/securitycontext/util.go#L193-L211):

Reviewer: Avoid linking to the source code; instead, if we want to put a list in, pop it inside a new (small) page within https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/node/

Author: how do you feel about me dropping the link to the source code but not adding a reference? having it in 3 places seems more likely to skew eventually

Reviewer: That's fine.

- Masked Paths:
  - `/proc/asound`
  - `/proc/acpi`
  - `/proc/kcore`
  - `/proc/keys`
  - `/proc/latency_stats`
  - `/proc/timer_list`
  - `/proc/timer_stats`
  - `/proc/sched_debug`
  - `/proc/scsi`

>   - `/sys/firmware`

Reviewer: We might want to call out this one especially, as it's outside `/proc`.

Reviewer: What I mean is: people might think that  `procMount` only covers `/proc`.

Author: I left a note below does that suffice?

- Read Only Paths:
  - `/proc/bus`
  - `/proc/fs`
  - `/proc/irq`
  - `/proc/sys`
  - `/proc/sysrq-trigger`

> However, there are some cases where a user may wish their container did not
> mask these paths. The most common case is users trying to run containers within
> Kubernetes containers.

Reviewer: (nit) Try
```suggestion
For some Pods, you might want to bypass that default masking of paths.
The most common context for wanting this is if you are trying to run containers within
a Kubernetes container (within a pod).
```

The `securityContext` field `procMount` allows a user to request a container's `/proc`
be `Unmasked`, or be mounted as read-write by the container process.

```yaml
...
securityContext:

>   procMount: Unmasked

Reviewer: We should give the reader more context about what to change; this looks pretty terse.

It's OK for alpha but would need to change before graduation to beta.

```

> {{ < note > }}
> As of Kubernetes 1.30, this field requires the `spec.hostUsers` value in the pod
> spec to be `false`. In other words: a container that wishes to have an Unmasked
> `/proc` must also be in a [user
> namespace](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/user-namespaces.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ < note > }}
In Kubernetes {{< skew currentVersion >}}, this field requires the `spec.hostUsers` value in the pod
spec to be `false`. In other words: a container that wishes to have an Unmasked
`/proc` or unmasked `/sys` must also be in a
[user namespace](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/user-namespaces/).

Kubernetes v1.12 to v1.29 did not enforce that requirement.
{{< /note >}}
```

If I want to map `/sys/firmware` into a (privileged) Pod, and I'm using Kubernetes v1.30, how do I do that?

Author: if a pod is privileged then no paths are masked

Reviewer: OK, how about
```suggestion
{{ < note > }}
Setting `procMount` to Unmasked requires the `spec.hostUsers` value in the pod
spec to be `false`. In other words: a container that wishes to have an Unmasked
`/proc` or unmasked `/sys` must also be in a
[user namespace](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/user-namespaces/).

Kubernetes v1.12 to v1.29 did not enforce that requirement.
{{< /note >}}
```
?

Reviewer 3: Looking at the diff, it looks like this change was made; this can be resolved.

in the volume.
The more files and directories in the volume, the longer that relabelling takes.

{{< note >}}

> <!-- remove after Kubernetes v1.30 is released -->

Reviewer: Is this right?

Author: ah this was pulled in from a merge conflict...

> {{< note >}}
> <!-- remove after Kubernetes v1.30 is released -->
> If you are running Kubernetes v1.25, refer to the v1.25 version of this task page:
> [Configure a Security Context for a Pod or Container](https://v1-25.docs.kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/) (v1.25).  
> There is an important note in that documentation about a situation where the kubelet
> can lose track of volume labels after restart. This deficiency has been fixed
> in Kubernetes 1.26.
> {{< /note >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* For more information about security mechanisms in Linux, see
  [Overview of Linux Kernel Security Features](https://www.linux.com/learn/overview-linux-kernel-security-features)
  (Note: Some information is out of date)

> * [User Namespaces](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/user-namespaces.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Read about [user namespaces](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/user-namespaces/) for Linux pods.
```

* For more information about security mechanisms in Linux, see
  [Overview of Linux Kernel Security Features](https://www.linux.com/learn/overview-linux-kernel-security-features)
  (Note: Some information is out of date)

> * Read about [User Namespaces](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/user-namespaces.md)

Reviewer: Ideally we'd have fixed this broken link before a merge. I'll file an issue.

Reviewer: Actually, I'll just send in a PR.
